(virtualwritingtutor)[https://virtualwritingtutor.com/]

1. Try each of the 4 self-scoring academic writing test tasks. The VWT automatically scores your essay on the IELTS 9-band scale. It’s experimental, but it represents a breakthrough in the provision of formative feedback and the use of artificial intelligence for the VWT. It employs what I call Latent Essay Feature Analysis (LEFA) and Model Essay Proximity Scoring (MEPS). Simply put, I have created model essays, extracted and measured a range of features. When a student submits an essay on the same topic, it measures those same features and generates a proximity score.
2. Set up a pen pal exchange so that students can get meaningful practice developing their basic interpersonal communication skills (BICS) while communicating with students in the same class, in the next class, in another college, or at a university on the other side of the planet. It’s 100% secure because the teacher decides who can join the exchange.
3. The Hypertext Narrative Creator has been completely updated with Node.js. It is super-fast now! Students can create a Choose Your Own Adventure interactive story and export it to a blog using HTML, JQuery, or an iFrame.
4. The VWT Essay Outliner guides students through the outlining process of opinion, argument, and prioritized list essays. By answering questions and filling the blanks, the student can learn to outline as a skill. The system generates and stores essay outlines for the student to print or modify.
5. Visit the blog for free stuff and ideas.
6. Post essays to the forum to get feedback from the community.
7. Review your feedback and recover the texts you checked in the past.
8. Play a correction game with errors from your own essays. The ultimate review activity! When you check your text, the system isolates and saves sentences with errors to your profile. Then, you can practice correcting your sentences at random.
9. Count your words.
10. Check your grammar. I keep adding rules to detect common errors.
11. Check your sentence length, variability, and the strength of your claims. Varying sentence length makes writing seem more dynamic.
12. Check only your punctuation.
13. Check your essay for the following:
· Sophistication
Vocabulary profile
Academic vocabulary profile
Lexical density
· Writing skill
Cohesion
Sentence length and variance
Emotional engagement
Argument strength
· Tone check
Cliché check
Conversational vocabulary check
Exclamation check
· Grammar check
Grammar, spelling and punctuation check
Error analysis
· Length
Paragraph count
250-word minimum
350-word minimum
450-word minimum
700-word minimum
· Task success
IELTS Academic Writing Task-2 Rubric
TOEFL Independent Writing Rubric
14. Check your writing for the following:
· Vocabulary profile
· Cohesion
· Sentence length and variability
· Grammatical errors
15. Use rubrics to score and a voice recorder to give feedback on a student’s or a peer’s essay. The system allows you to coach instead of just correcting.
16. Check the sophistication of your general vocabulary and academic vocabulary.
17. Avoid plagiarism by checking your paraphrase against the original. The system scores your paraphrase and lets you know if you need to paraphrase some more.
18. Check a text to see if it contains a list of target structures. Three settings allow for case-sensitive, case-insensitive, and lemmatized target structure checks (which means any conjugated or derivations of base forms).
19. Check your text for coordinators, subordinators, and transition words in order to determine how cohesive the text is. Transition words are organized into functional categories. Bar graphs show which transitions you are using the most and which you have neglected to use.
20. Look up words in the Cambridge dictionary.
21. Test the system with a sample of a first-person text.
22. Test the system with a sample academic opinion essay text.
23. Check your spelling.
24. Use speech recognition instead of typing.
25. Hear the text-to-speech pronunciation of your text. This useful when preparing for orals. There is no reason for students to mispronounce a word again.
26. Download an MP3 of the text-to-speech pronunciation of your text. Use it to rehearse for an oral.
27. Download your text as an MS Word document.
